Skip to main content
Skip To search
Skip To Alex Virtual Assistant
ATO Community
Legal Database
What's New
Log in to online services
Search
Menu
Home
Individuals and families
Businesses and organisations
Tax and super professionals
Motor vehicle and car expenses
Expenses for a car you own or lease
Expenses for a vehicle that isn't yours or isn't a car
Expenses for parking tolls accidents licence and fines
Expenses for a car you own or lease
Cents per kilometre method
Logbook method
Individuals and families
Income, deductions, offsets and records
Expand this list
...
Expenses for a car you own or lease
Cents per kilometre method
Cents per kilometre method

How to calculate a deduction for car expenses using the cents per kilometre method and the records you need to keep.

Last updated 12 August 2026

Print or Download
On this page
How it works
Calculating your deduction
Keeping records for cents per kilometre method
How it works

The cents per kilometre method allows you to claim a set rate for each work-related kilometre you travel, as long as you meet the conditions.

Using this method, you:

can claim a maximum of 5,000 km for work-related use per year
don't need receipts for your expenses (e.g. fuel receipts)
do need a record to show how you calculate your work-related kilometres (e.g. using a diary or the myDeductions tool in the ATO app)
need to be able to show that you own the car.

The rate per km covers all of your car expenses including decline in value, registration and insurance, maintenance, repairs and fuel costs.

You can’t add these, or any other car expenses, on top of the rate when calculating your deduction.

Calculating your deduction

To calculate your deduction using this method, multiply the number of work-related kilometres you travel in the car by the rate per kilometre for that income year.

You can claim a maximum of 5,000 work-related kilometres per car.

'Work-related kilometres' are the kilometres your car travels in the course of earning your assessable income. For more information on what travel is incurred in the course of earning your assessable employment income, see Trips you can and can't claim.

You can work out the number of work-related kilometres the car travelled during the income year by making a reasonable estimate. For example, if you make a 20 kilometre work-related round trips in your car once a week and you worked for 48 weeks in the year, your work-related kilometres will be 960 (20 kilometres × 48 weeks).

Use the rate for the income year for which you are claiming a deduction:  

2026-27: use 91 cents per kilometre
2024–25 and 2025–26: use 88 cents per kilometre
2023–24: use 85 cents per kilometre
2022–23: use 78 cents per kilometre
2020–21 and 2021–22: use 72 cents per kilometre
for rates in earlier years, see Prior year tax return forms and schedules.

You need to keep records that show how you work out your work-related kilometres.

If you and another joint owner use the car for separate income-producing purposes, you can each claim up to 5,000 work-related kilometres.

Keeping records for cents per kilometre method

If you use the cents per kilometre method, you don't need receipts.

You do need to be able to show that you own the car and how you work out your work-related kilometres. For example, you could record your work-related trips:

in a diary
using the myDeductions tool in the ATO app.

 

Example: car deduction using cents per kilometre

Once per week, Johan makes a 27-kilometre round trip in his own car from his head office in the city to meet with clients. In addition, once per month he makes a 106-kilometre round trip to visit clients at another location.

When Johan consults his diary at the end of the 2025–26 income year, he works out he was at work for 47 weeks, but he missed one weekly meeting with clients as he was sick. He also determines that, although he was on leave for 5 weeks during the income year, he still made 12 × 106-kilometre round trips to visit clients.

He works out his work-related kilometres as:

Number of weekly trips multiplied by distance of weekly trip equals total weekly trip kilometres

46 × 27 km = 1,242 km

Number of monthly trips multiplied by distance of monthly trip equals total monthly trip kilometres

12 × 106 km = 1,272 km

Total weekly trip kilometres plus total monthly trip kilometres equals total trip kilometres

1,242 km + 1,272 km = 2,514 km

Johan works out his deduction for the 2025–26 income year as:

2,514 km × 0.88 = $2,212

End of example

 

 

QC107246

Print or Download
Tools
Media centre
Forms and instructions
Tax rates and codes
Calculators and tools
Tax information for
People with disability
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Norfolk Island
Other languages
Help and support
Top call centre questions
Contact us
Identity security and scams
Financial difficulties and disasters
About ATO
Careers
Privacy policy
ATOtv
Other languages
facebook Opens in a new window
Linkedin Opens in a new window
Instagram Opens in a new window

We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites