Skip to main content
Skip To search
Skip To Alex Virtual Assistant
ATO Community
Legal Database
What's New
Log in to online services
Search
Menu
Home
Individuals and families
Businesses and organisations
Tax and super professionals
Medicare levy
What is the Medicare levy?
Medicare levy exemption
Medicare levy reduction
Medicare levy reduction
Medicare levy reduction for low-income earners
Medicare levy reduction – family income
Individuals and families
Medicare and private health insurance
Expand this list
...
Medicare levy reduction
Medicare levy reduction for low-income earners
Medicare levy reduction for low-income earners

A Medicare levy reduction applies if your taxable income is between the thresholds as a single low-income earner.

Last updated 30 June 2026

Print or Download
On this page
When you don't pay the Medicare levy
Medicare levy reduction thresholds for singles
When you don't pay the Medicare levy

In 2025–26, you don't have to pay the Medicare levy if your taxable income is equal to or less than the lower Medicare levy threshold. Check the thresholds, see, Table: Medicare levy thresholds for a single individual.

Medicare levy reduction thresholds for singles

Your taxable income must be equal to or less than the relevant upper threshold in the table for you to qualify for a reduction. We work out the reduction for you when you lodge your tax return.

Table: Medicare levy thresholds for a single individual

Category

	

Lower
threshold

	

Upper
threshold




If you're entitled to the Seniors and pensioners tax offset

	

$44,268

	

$55,335
(see note 1)




All other taxpayers

	

$28,011

	

$35,013

Note 1: The entitlement to the seniors and pensioners tax offset (SAPTO) for singles ceases when the rebate income reaches $52,759.

If you don't qualify for a single reduction, you may still qualify for a reduction based on your family taxable income.

If you don't qualify for a reduction in the Medicare levy, you may still qualify for a Medicare levy exemption.

You can use the Medicare levy calculator to work out your Medicare levy payable.

For prior year Medicare levy reduction thresholds, see:

Medicare levy reduction threshold 2024–25
Medicare levy reduction threshold 2023–24
Medicare levy reduction threshold 2022–23
Medicare levy reduction threshold 2021–22
Example: Medicare levy reduction based on income within the threshold

Angie's taxable income is $29,000. Angie is single with no dependants and she isn't entitled to SAPTO. Angie isn't eligible for any Medicare levy exemptions.

Angie qualifies for a Medicare levy reduction because her taxable income is less than the upper threshold. Angie completes her tax return and we work out her Medicare levy reduction for her.

Angie uses the Medicare levy calculator to find out how much Medicare levy she will pay. She enters her details and finds out her Medicare levy will be reduced to $98.90

End of example

 

QC27031

Print or Download
Tools
Media centre
Forms and instructions
Tax rates and codes
Calculators and tools
Tax information for
People with disability
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Norfolk Island
Other languages
Help and support
Top call centre questions
Contact us
Identity security and scams
Financial difficulties and disasters
About ATO
Careers
Privacy policy
ATOtv
Other languages
facebook Opens in a new window
Linkedin Opens in a new window
Instagram Opens in a new window

We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites