Skip to main content
Skip To search
Skip To Alex Virtual Assistant
ATO Community
Legal Database
What's New
Log in to online services
Search
Menu
Home
Individuals and families
Businesses and organisations
Tax and super professionals
GST
How GST works
Registering for GST
When to charge GST (and when not to)
Tax invoices
Claiming GST credits
Accounting for GST in your business
When and how to report and pay GST
Completing your BAS for GST
If your business changes or ceases
GST definitions
How we can help
Understanding GST for your industry and specifc transactions
Registering for GST
GST groups and branches
Registering for GST
GST groups and branches
Businesses and organisations
GST, excise, LCT, WET and PRRT
GST
Registering for GST
Registering for GST

Work out if, when and how you need to register for GST.

Last updated 14 September 2026

Print or Download
On this page
How GST registration works
When you need to register
If you don't register
Backdating your GST registration
Working out your GST turnover
GST groups and branches
How GST registration works

Not every business or enterprise needs to be registered for GST, but penalties may apply if you fail to register when required to do so.

Once you are required to register for GST, you need to do so within 21 days.

You only need to register for GST once, even if you operate more than one business.

Before you register, you need to have an Australian business number (ABN). You can get an ABN
External Link
 when you first register your business name or at a later time.

You only need to register for GST once, even if you operate more than one business.

You can also cancel your GST registration if you are no longer required to be registered.

If you are a non-resident, depending on your business activities, you may need to register for GST. For more information on how to register see Non-resident businesses and GST. There are different proof-of-identity requirements for non-residents.

When you need to register

You must register for GST:

when your business or enterprise has a GST turnover (gross income from all businesses minus GST) of $75,000 or more (the GST threshold). To find out how this is calculated see Working out your GST turnover.
when you start a new business and expect your turnover to reach the GST threshold (or more) in the first year of operation
if your non-profit organisation has a GST turnover of $150,000 per year or more
when you provide taxi or limousine travel for passengers (including ride-sourcing) regardless of your GST turnover. This applies to both owner-drivers and if you lease or rent a taxi.
if you earn income through the sharing economy or digital platforms (for example, food delivery services or other platform-based work). For more information, see Sharing economy.
if you want to claim fuel tax credits for your business or enterprise.

If your business or enterprise doesn’t fit into one of these categories, registering for GST is optional. If you choose to register, generally you must stay registered for at least 12 months.

 

Example: registering for GST as a trust

Beau is a tap dancer who posts his videos to a social media platform. He enters into a monetisation agreement with the social media platform as a trust.

The social media platform places advertising on Beau’s videos. Beau’s trust receives a percentage of the advertisement revenue from the social media platform when advertisements on his video clips are viewed.

As the social media platform operator is an Australian entity, the trust’s sale to the social media platform is a taxable sale.

Beau’s trust receives over $75,000 in advertising revenue, so it is required to register for GST and pay GST on the payments received.

End of example

 

How to register

Once you have an ABN, you can register for GST either:

through Online services for business
by phoning our Business enquiries line
through your registered tax agent or BAS agent
External Link
.

We'll notify you in writing of your:

GST registration details, including the date your registration is effective
ABN details (if you haven't already received them).

Once registered for GST, you need to lodge a business activity statement (BAS).

If you don't register

If you're not registered for GST, check each month to see if you've reached the GST threshold, or are likely to exceed it. You need to register within 21 days of your GST turnover exceeding the relevant threshold.

If you don't register for GST and are required to, you may have to pay GST on sales made since the date you were required to register. This could happen even if you didn't include GST in the price of those sales.

You may also have to pay penalties and interest.

Backdating your GST registration

You can apply to backdate your GST registration. Backdating a GST registration is limited to 4 years. This means, unless there is fraud or evasion:

we can't backdate your GST registration by more than 4 years
you are not required to be registered before that date.

To request a backdated GST registration, you will need to phone our Business enquiries line.

Working out your GST turnover

Your GST turnover is your total business income (not your profit), minus:

GST included in sales to your customers
sales to associates that aren't for payment and aren't taxable
sales not connected with an enterprise you run
input-taxed sales you make
sales not connected with Australia.
GST turnover threshold

You reach the GST turnover threshold if either:

your current GST turnover (total turnover for the current month and the previous 11 months) totals $75,000 or more ($150,000 or more for non-profit organisations)
your projected GST turnover (total turnover for the current month and the next 11 months) is likely to be $75,000 or more ($150,000 or more for non-profit organisations).

Using a business software package to account for sales and expenses may make it easier to calculate your current or projected GST turnover.

When working out your projected GST turnover, don’t include:

amounts you receive for the sale of a business asset, such as the sale of a capital asset
any sale you make, or are likely to make, solely as a consequence of
ceasing to carry on an enterprise
substantially and permanently reducing the size or scale of an enterprise.

Even if your current GST turnover is at or above the threshold, you don't have to register for GST if we are satisfied that your projected GST turnover will be less than the threshold.

Example: Barry's current GST turnover – May plus previous 11 months

Barry is a sole trader who sells specialised car parts. At the end of May, his gross business income for the month is $2,560.

He must work out if this amount plus the previous 11 months gross business income reaches the GST turnover threshold of $75,000.

Barry adds his gross business income for May and the previous months together. His current GST turnover is $31,170.

Although his current GST turnover is less than $75,000, he must now calculate his projected GST turnover.

Barry continues to calculate his projected gross business income each month and, if he meets the threshold in the future, he will have 21 days to register for GST from that time.

End of example
GST groups and branches

Related entities may form a single group for GST purposes.

An entity may separately register a branch for GST purposes if this suits its management and accounting structure.

If you're a member of a GST group, your turnover:

includes the turnover of the other group members
does not include transactions between group members.
GST groups and branches

Understand the eligibility and operation of GST branches and groups and their effect on GST turnover.

QC22412

Print or Download
Tools
Media centre
Forms and instructions
Tax rates and codes
Calculators and tools
Tax information for
People with disability
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Norfolk Island
Other languages
Help and support
Top call centre questions
Contact us
Identity security and scams
Financial difficulties and disasters
About ATO
Careers
Privacy policy
ATOtv
Other languages
facebook Opens in a new window
Linkedin Opens in a new window
Instagram Opens in a new window

We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites