Skip to main content
Skip To search
Skip To Alex Virtual Assistant
ATO Community
Legal Database
What's New
Log in to online services
Search
Menu
Home
Individuals and families
Businesses and organisations
Tax and super professionals
Medicare and private health insurance
Medicare levy
Medicare levy surcharge
Private health insurance rebate
Medicare levy
What is the Medicare levy?
Medicare levy exemption
Medicare levy reduction
Individuals and families
Medicare and private health insurance
Medicare levy
What is the Medicare levy?
What is the Medicare levy?

The Medicare levy is an amount you pay in addition to the tax you pay on your taxable income.

Last updated 30 April 2026

Print or Download

The Medicare levy helps fund some of the costs of Australia's public health system known as Medicare. The Medicare levy is 2% of your taxable income.

You may get a reduction or exemption from paying the Medicare levy, depending on you and your spouse's income and circumstances. You need to consider your eligibility for a reduction or an exemption separately.

We calculate your Medicare levy when you lodge your tax return. Generally, the pay as you go amount your employer withholds from your salary or wages includes an amount to cover the Medicare levy.

You can use the Medicare levy calculator to work out your Medicare levy.

The Medicare levy surcharge (MLS) is a separate levy to the Medicare levy. Depending on your personal circumstances, you may need to pay the MLS in addition to the Medicare levy.

Example: working out how much Medicare levy to pay

Matthew earns an income of $76,000 annually. He has $1,000 of allowable deductions.

Matthew is single and doesn't have any dependants. Matthew isn't entitled to the Seniors and pensioners tax offset (SAPTO) and isn't eligible for any Medicare levy exemptions or reductions.

Matthew will pay a Medicare levy of 2% of his taxable income.

Matthew works out his taxable income as:

Assessable income − allowable deductions = taxable income

$76,000 − $1,000 = $75,000

The amount of Medicare levy Matthew pays is:

$75,000 × 0.02 = $1,500

The Medicare levy is automatically calculated when Matthew completes his tax return.

End of example

QC71228

Print or Download
Tools
Media centre
Forms and instructions
Tax rates and codes
Calculators and tools
Tax information for
People with disability
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
Norfolk Island
Other languages
Help and support
Top call centre questions
Contact us
Identity security and scams
Financial difficulties and disasters
About ATO
Careers
Privacy policy
ATOtv
Other languages
facebook Opens in a new window
Linkedin Opens in a new window
Instagram Opens in a new window

We acknowledge the Traditional Owners and Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and community. We pay our respects to them, their cultures, and Elders past and present.

© Commonwealth of Australia | View related websites